---
layout: default
tags: []
title: Exercise

---
Recently I’ve been thinking that I was lucky to grow up in quite an active, outdoors family. For one, I love the outdoors, and I have been exposed to all sorts of outside fun that I now have the confidence to continue independently. I grew up loving team games (although less than my brothers, but that’s for another time), sea swimming, pool swimming, windy walks, jumping off rocks, skiing, diving, you name it. I even shocked myself by getting really into running when I was in London and had a good group to go out with.

If I’m honest though, that wasn’t the first thought that went through my head when I had this realisation. Nope, I was thinking about how I probably worked less hard than most to have a body/ weight that’s fairly socially acceptable. Of course lucky genetics in that regard plays a role too. (To be clear, I’m aware I’m far from being a model, but my weight has been a lot lower down my list of hang-ups than most girls and maybe boys that I grew up with).

Exercise occupies a horrible place in our culture. For way too many people it’s intrinsically linked with our obsession with weight, masquerading as ‘fitness’ or even worse ‘health’. Exercise is just another tool in how we’re taught to hate ourselves. I cannot deny for a second that exercise is brilliant for one’s physical, and at least in my experience, mental health. But I think a huge amount of that ‘good for mental health’ is undone when I exercise for the wrong reasons, namely to lose weight. I found it hard to fit exercise into my routine when I started working full time alongside studying and commuting. Going for a guilty run when I was exhausted and lethargic only happened on days when I particularly disliked myself, and shockingly didn’t really make me feel better like we’re promised it will. Now exercise is associated with feelings of guilt and obligation, and I think has genuinely put a bit of a downer on the whole thing for me. I guess what’s actually lucky is that exercise hasn’t always been a chore for me, that it hasn’t always been associated with painful, boring gym slogs and a bit of self-hate.

Now I’ve had this realisation (lots of credit to Jameela) I’m trying to consciously exercise for the enjoyment of it. I want to embrace the endorphins, my amazing new views or having a good stretch for half an hour (aka my version of yoga) without worrying about the calories. I also hope by being a bit more conscious of the above I can start engaging a bit more critically with the messages I’m fed about how I should look, behave and be. Even more importantly, I hope I can pass some of that onto the kids.