---
title: Blogging
body: "\n"
layout: default
tags: []

---
A big part of me is very much resistant to writing a blog. Although a few friends with interesting lives and/or ideas write blogs that I genuinely enjoy reading, there’s a pretty big risk of a personal blog becoming self-indulgent, cringey, and preachy (and a gold-mine for anyone who ever wants to mock you). That is especially true here, as I’m writing this more for myself than to keep people updated on what I’m up to. The aim is for it to serve as a journal/ record of my current thoughts, so I can go back and read it at some point in the future. 

I’ve kept a journal on and off throughout various stages of my life, and then promptly gone back and destroyed them at first re-reading.  My longest streak was around when I was 9-10, and I distinctly remember starting one at Mum’s suggestion when I was made head girl. That lasted all of two entries until the smugness wore off and the self-doubt kicked in. But Mum was right and I wish I had a record of that period of my life, and most periods before and after. 

Having realised that, I have kept a journal for the last year, but with gaps of months between some entries. I have actually enjoyed reading back those entries despite the cringe, remembering the minutia of my daily life (shout-out those rose-tinted glasses), and have found the process of writing itself can be quite cathartic. I’m hoping that the element of accountability from publishing these blogs will help me actually keep it up this year.

I am cautious of putting out a journal on the internet, and the nature of my job means I have to be pretty careful what I say. That probably means this won’t contain too much about what I’m up to day to day, but more about what I’ve been thinking/ talking/ reading about recently. It will inevitably be totally self-indulgent, cringey, and preachy. It might prompt some interesting conversations though, so if you are reading, let me know. Just don’t be too harsh yet, I’m new to this.