---
layout: default
tags: []
title: 13 reasons why S3

---
Trying to avoid spoilers just in case.

Finally finished season 3 of 13 reasons why today, one of the worst reviewed netflix series ever. It’s a show I dislike in many many ways, but I’m invested enough in the characters that I want to know what happens. I struggled with the premise of season 1 and found s2 bloated and confusing. The same can probably be said for season 3 in many ways. That, along with the multitude of different issues tokenistically thrown in and the plot holes, has been the focus for much criticism. 

But I have to admit on the whole I enjoyed it. The murder mystery element worked for me, it genuinely wasn’t predictable and I quite like the moral maze of it all. I don’t know what to think about a lot of the characters’ behaviour which has given me a lot to think about. I tend to try and make issues black and white, which is impossible here and that’s been a good reminder to me. Good people do bad things and bad people are made not born (I hope?).

I appreciated that characters got realistic, imperfect redemption. I think it’s important to have optimism that teenagers who make awful awful choices can get help and get better. However it’s also important to show that those characters would not become perfect all the time (or even close) as soon as they started trying, which is what I’ve seen far to often before. I thought it also explored well the consequences of actions and the complex ways we feel about people that hurt us. Was it too generous to the villains? Perhaps, the critics certainly think so. For me there was enough focus on the hurt they’d caused that I never forgot it amongst the stories of their own pain. 

The way they deal with the topic matter has also improved I think, from the content warnings to the dialling down of romanticising issues. For me though, two big issues remain. I may be being patronising but for a show aimed at teenagers I think many of the issues are very nuanced and could easily be misinterpreted/ taken in a less generous way than I took them. Secondly, the show still relies too much on unnecessary violent scenes for shock factor. There were many emotional scenes which were far more impactful and less disturbing to me. After removing _that_ scene from S1 I’m a bit surprised they carried on with these. I don’t think they added anything- the scene where Tyler describes the scene from s2 conveys the horror just as powerfully as watching the event itself imo.

In all honesty I wouldn’t recommend the show to someone who’s never watched it before. But for all the teenagers or adults who are invested I hope this continues to provoke and normalise essential conversations. I hope we can do better in future.