---
layout: default
tags: []
title: Makeup

---
I don’t often leave the house to do anything except exercise or a weekend food shop without makeup. I definitely would never go to work without makeup. To be honest, I sometimes resent the time I spend on it and how it limits my spontaneity, but on the whole I’m a fan. I especially love ‘going out’ makeup, the glittery eyeshadow and the big eyeliner and the lipstick and especially the lashes. But I also like that 10 minutes in the bathroom in the morning (plus 10+ years of practice) allows me to express myself and like the way I look a bit more. It really winds me up when people (boys) do the whole ‘oh I wish girls didn’t wear so much makeup’ ‘you look better without it’ ‘hurry up’ without understanding at all what they’re on about. I wish I did have the confidence to go out bare faced, but I don’t and to be honest I would suffer in my professional and personal life for it. Although there are many things to be unpacked in that statement, the fact is women will be expected to wear makeup and feel pressure to do so until far less value is placed on the way we look and we're not expected to conform to a completely ludicrous ideal (affects men too I know but let’s have some perspective here). There’s a chance I might provide a positive role model to the kids if I went bare-faced every day, but I think I can make a bigger positive impact on their attitudes to these issues in a more explicit way. Of course I wish I liked the way I looked more, and I’m working on it, but I’m not going to let it be another thing I beat myself up about.